CS Clicker
===
James Plante
September 9, 2019


## Summary and Plot
CS Clicker is a game inspired by idle games such as Cookie Clicker and Paperclips, where the main objective is to 
push one button to increment a counter, and this counter can be used to purchase other items to increase this counter by a set rate. The main objective and plot 
of this game is to generate lines of code which then can be used to help feed data to a newly-developed machine learning algorithm. This algorithm could then be used
to generate the perfect coding style so computer scientists could agree on one coding standard that works for everyone. As more and more lines of code are generated,
it gains the attention of local user groups in the area, who start contributing their own code. This eventually accelerates to the point where people are willing to donate machines
hardware such as servers and even quantum computers to generate code for the cause of creating the perfect coding style.

This project mainly focused on the interaction between the front-end, which updates the UI and does minor calculations and sends the data
to the back-end server for storage and to calculate/verify purchases. This was mainly done through custom GET and POST requests in which the UI can request
data given a specific UID, and using localStorage to implement state across browser refreshes.

https://a2-jamesplante.glitch.me/

## Technical Achievements
- **Purchasing System**: Purchases are sent to the server backend as POST requests after a user fills out the HTML form containing "delta objects" that consist of the current balance and what the user wants to purchase. The server then makes
the appropriate calculations (and does error checking), then sends whether the purchase was successful to the front end. Afterwards a GET request is sent to the server to get the updated
fields.
- **Dynamic Temporary "Database"**: Whenever a user uses the page for the first time, a unique UID is requested by the user and generated by the server and sent to the user. In the background, 
a new field for the newly generated ID is created in the local database (which is just a global array of objects). The user also stores the UID in localStoage to be used across sessions.
If a query is made to the server requesting data from a specific UID (in the case of a server restart), the server will generate a new object with that ID to prevent the website from 
crashing.
- **Autosave**: Game progress is persistent across sessions due to the implementation of localStorage. Whenever the application refreshes and the user has an ID in storage, it will 
request the user data with a specific URL, then updates the UI to "restore" the save file. The front-end also sends a blank "delta object" with only the current lines of code to the server every thirty seconds to update the
server to update this 'save file'. This was done to reduce the amount of traffic to the server. Additionally, the game state is saved every time a purchase is made.
- **Extra Field**: The game also keeps track of the total amount of lines of code produced overall as a derived field of the current balance along with the costs of 
all of the items purchased and is shown on the results screen.

## Design/Evaluation Achievements
- **Terminal Theme**: Shown in `style.css`, the layout of the website takes on a dark theme with white text on a black background, reminiscent of a computer terminal.
- **Buttons Change Color when Hovered Over**: With the help of a tutorial, I learned how to change the style of individual buttons to include a transition animation to
a different color when hovered over. The buttons were done in the style of the Metro UI of later versions of Windows, which fits the theme of the page well.
Here is the link to the tutorial: https://www.w3schools.com/css/css3_buttons.asp.
- **Animated Header Logo**: While the server does not have a command line interface, it has an animated header bar that is reminscent of the interface with a blinking
cursor animated in JavaScript with a custom monospaced font.
- **Custom Fonts**: This website uses custom fonts via the Google Fonts Website. Here are the links to the fonts used:
  + **VT323 Font** - https://fonts.google.com/specimen/VT323?selection.family=VT323
  + **OpenSans** - https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Open+Sans

### Other Aspects to Note
- I based the table CSS theme on one from my submission for Assignment 1, since they had defaults that I preferred on the existing website. Any changes I made are commented
in `style.css`.
- This webpage when displayed in Firefox has a larger "Add line of Code" button than it does on Google Chrome.
- I spoke with Professor Roberts about the requirements about "a `Form/Entry` functionality which allows a user to add, modify, or delete data items residing in the 
server's memory" and he indicated that automatically adding users and modifying their data is sufficient for this assignment. The server does not currently delete user
records.